Well, speaking of the books, Reisner's books,
have you ever read any of the books that any of the
other POWs have written? Oh, yeah, I have. I've
read Robbie's book, and I read my old roommate, Red
McDaniel, wrote a book. I don't remember all of
them at the moment, but I did read most of them.
Uh-huh. Okay. There were some prisoners released
early, and the people like we talk about, the
cooperated. They were released early,
obviously, because they did cooperate. What was
the POW's feelings in the camp about those men?
Well, we felt they were dead wrong to accept
preferential treatment and so on. But the big
thing that was so wrong about it was that it played
right into the hands of the Vietnam
propagandists. They served their purpose by
releasing three people at a time and saying, You
know, they had those people
giving the answers that they were assured, you
know, before they released them, that they had
people that are going to say the things they wanted
them to say when they got out. And that's why they
released them. And they did it strictly for the
benefit of the Vietnamese, not for anything other
than that. I mean, North Vietnam. That was
cooperating to the nth degree with the enemy. And
of course, we all had discussed that and said that
we would not get involved in a program that would
lead to something like that. Because you could
very easily detect what was going on if If they
started moving in that kind of a direction with
you, you'd know what they were up to. Actually, the
only one person that
our so-called senior officers authorized to go
along with the D and try to get released was a guy
named I never think of these names for so many
years. He was a young seaman who they captured in a
real freak way up there, and he was with us for a
while. He had fallen overboard off of a destroyer
out in the Gulf of Tonkin and got picked up by
Vietnamese fishermen. And he was in our prison
system. He was an American. And his name was
something like Hagler or Hagar. I've forgotten
his name now. But anyhow, he was a young fella.
Wasn't an officer. And I think our people, our
senior guys had told him when he reported that they
were making approaches to him along the lines that
led him to think that they might be thinking about
sending him. And they told him to go ahead and play
along with them. and obtain his release, and they
gave him information to take home with him. So he
was the only one of the, I think there were 12
overall that got released. None of them were
authorized to do that except
him. Most people... the POWs as having to endure
the hardships and everything, but your family, of
course, was worried. Did they ever have any notice
that you were a prisoner of war, or were you just
considered missing for that time? I was missing
until June of 1970 is when Ann found out. So you'd
been over there about two years then, right? Well,
I was shot down in December of 67, so 68, 69. It was
two and a half years or so. when she finally got some
confirmation that I was alive. That's the first
she'd heard of me in any way.
But that came as a real surprise to me, and I didn't
know it until I got home because my assumption from
the beginning was that I was known to be a prisoner
because I had made several transmissions on my
little radio coming down in the parachute. You
know, this parachute opens at 13,000 feet, and I
was coming down for a long time, and I was up pretty
high when I made the transmissions. We had good
communications coverage of the whole area up
there in Package 6 with communications aircraft,
special aircraft that had all the communications
gear on. So, you know, I just didn't dream that
those communications, that those transmissions
that I made weren't recorded. I just assumed they
were. And went from there, I just didn't, from the
very beginning, I just said, well, you know, they
know I'm okay. But That wasn't the case at all. They
didn't get anything. And nobody, and I had a lot of
close friends in the war zone down there, and in the
headquarters down at Seventh Air Force, and so on.
General Bo, among them, General Tomlin, and they
all tried to get, they screened every
communication they could find and so on, tried to
get some clue, but nobody knew anything. I mean,
there wasn't any communications that they could
make any determination, positive determination
that I had made. So I was strictly missing an ax
until one time. You did arrive back in the States.
What was your response to the Americans' actions
at the time? I mean, POWs were given a fairly warm
welcome, and then again, there were the awarding
senators also, the people that were opposing the
war. I didn't see any of those. All I ever got when we
got back was strictly, you know, fantastic
reception from everybody that I came in contact
with. And it was just... a very euphoric
time for a good while.
Well, it hasn't stopped yet. How was it like to see
your kids again? They'd grown up while you were
gone, or at least six years change or seven years
change? Yeah, right. They'd grown quite a bit. My
kids ranged in age from seven to 14.
And then when I got home, they ranged from 13 to 20.
That was quite a change. Kathy was beginning her
junior year, I suppose, in college. And John
was...
It was sophomore year. So there was a big chance
they'd grown up, of course. But they really hadn't
changed personality-wise.
The kids were all the same. And I had gotten a few
little snapshots in the last year or so while I was
up there. And also, when I arrived at Clark, I had a
big letter with some current pictures and that
sort of thing were there for me. I didn't have any
trouble recognizing my family.
Well, to close it up, do you have any statements to
summarize your feelings about the conflict in
Vietnam or about the hardships you had to endure,
the men over there had to endure?
No, I don't know specifically.
The Vietnam War turned out most unfortunately.
I think, though, that in the fall of 72, when it
became pretty obvious to us up there, too, because
a lot of things were happening, that our release
was getting pretty close. And that was before the
election, if you recall, in November. They
publicized this famous statement by Kissinger
that peace is at hand or something like that. So it
was
getting close. And then the obvious thing
happened that always happens with the
Vietnamese. There's no way you can negotiate with
them anything reasonable. So at the last minute,
they just threw a monkey wrench into the whole
thing. And so the president sent the B-52s to Hanoi
in December.
For 11 days, they had airplanes in the sky 24 hours a
day over Hanoi. B-52s at night mostly, and during
the day, fighters and so on. That 11 days typifies,
well, in the first place, it was a very courageous
decision that had to be made by the one man alone,
and he had to do it, and he did it knowing that, you
know, there would be a lot of criticism about it and
so on. But it had to be done, and it was very
effective. If he hadn't have done that, chances
are, you know, we might still be in Vietnam. But
those 11 days wiped them out. And it didn't, you
know, they very selectively bombed the different
areas, the industrial areas and so on up there. All
around Hanoi, I was right underneath it all, you
know, in the prison. Plaster was coming off the
walls in there. So, you know, I could see what was
happening.
But if we had done that, you know, like in 1964, the
war would have been over in a week. We wouldn't have
lost 50,000 people in over a period of, you know,
eight, nine years. So, that's hindsight, but it
You know, it's something that a lot of people knew
about and knew should have been done. But that war,
of course, as everybody knows, got involved in the
political process and the trying to run the war
from Washington and without without any regard
for military principles and so on, is what got us in
trouble with Vietnam. Had we gone into that war
with the intention of winning it right away, it
would have been over within a matter of weeks.
There wouldn't have been any problem whatsoever.
You know, again, that's hindsight. If Barry
Goldwater had been elected in 1964, then we
wouldn't have had a Vietnam War that would have
lasted any time to amount to anything. It would
have been over in a real big hurry. But that wasn't
what made it happen. But I, you know, as far as
myself personally is concerned, I was just...
doing my job and I was one of those guys that never,
you know, I didn't, I went up there and flew up over
Hanoi every day and I did, expected to fly my full
tour and not get shot down. I just knew, you know, it
wouldn't ever happen to me, but it sure as heck did.
I was one of the unfortunate few as far as that's
concerned. And when it happened, if it had cost me
my life, it would have been, you know, that's the
way it would have gone because I was just doing what
I'm supposed to do. And so I don't have any qualms
about...
doing my job, being in the military, and taking
what comes with that. And for me, it turned out
being in prison for a good long stretch, but that's
the breaks as far as I'm concerned. And I'm just
extremely fortunate that in the end, it turned out
the way it did. And I got back to my family and a great
life the only country in the world to live in, you
know, as far as I'm concerned. So overall, I'm
extremely fortunate and basically I'm fortunate
to be an American. And then, you know, to have all
the things that that allows me to have, including
my family and so on.